OK guys,

I got some progress with git.  It almost sounds like music now.  I've decided
to share what I've learned as far.  here are my few elementary cents on guitar
learning.  

First of all let me explain to you there is no shortage of guitarists on the 
market so from strategy point of view its not the best instrument to choose.
It also is not the easiest one, guitar is much more difficult than piano
technically.  So when learning music theory which isn't easy or learning your fav
song which isn't easy as well guitar introduces extra complexity compered to
piano.  this makes piano best choice for music learners.  best instrument to
join good band is horn.  bands need trumpets not guitars to win with other
bands.  with this in mind we will continue learning to play guitar. I just
thought I'll mention this in the intro for the foxes.

choose right one to practice. Acoustic with steal strings is pain to learn on.
Electric or classic with nylon strings is much easier and what you will be
learning is not easy at all.  many ppl gives up because its too hard.  You have
to be prepared to loose at first.  It will not sound nice at all the first
time you try.  Prepare for long painful process of learning, don't expect great
results fast.  exercises have to be repeated daily for muscles to develop. 

always start with tuning your git, at first use tuner after ear training you
should be able to tune from other instrument at given pitch. this is very
important at first your ear does not recognise you are wrong note. so use
tuner every time before you start.  also after you change strings they often 
go wrong pitch few times and have to be readjusted frequently. 

chords, keys and rhythm patterns
learn few chords then put them together in progressions. say
cdg cdg cdg key of c
now add rhythm pattern down down up down down up.
don't go to loud,  learn how to mutt it. then you can accent one of them.

practice rhythm
at first we play with wrong tempo tendency is to start at certain speed say
60bpm and  then encouraged by early success speed up to fast and then unable
to keep current speed on more
complex fragment which overall makes you sound like noob.
so practice against this urge/desire to speedup.  learn how to play very slow
without speeding up even if you are able to  play it faster.  record yourself
and listen back what mistakes you must have made.  
do whole piece at 60bpm. even if you could play it at 120.
when listening what you've recorded be very auto-critical. do not forgive
yourself any mistake but call it failure if something is not perfect.
perhaps ask someone else of their opinion as well.

repeat same rhythm pattern at 60bpm for 3min30sec without mistake, practice with
metronome. record it and play it back


practice ear and notes on freatboard
You will have to be able to recognise the notes, pitches and find them on
freatboard without effort.  knowledge of scales helps.

learn more music theory

c scale is one everyone learns first as its simplest one without
sharps/flats( black keys on piano)
